Sofieare Requirements Specification for DineOut

Software Requirements
Specification

for

DineOut

Version 1.0 approved

Prepared by:

Hassaan Elahi 15L-4028
Shafagq Arshad 15L-4180
Marriam Sajid 15L-4062
Haris Muneer 15L-4149 23" October 2018
Softeare Requirements Specification for DitreQut

Table of Contents

L. Introduction

1.1
1.2
13
1.4
1.5

Purpose

Document Conventions

Intended Audience and Reading Suggestions
Product Scope

References

2. Overall Description

Z.1
2.2
24
2.4
25
2.6
2.7

Product Perspective

Product Functions

User Classes and Chanicteristics
Operating Environment

Design and Implementation Constraints
User Documentation

Assumptions and Dependencies

3. External Interface Requirements

31
a2
33
3.4

User Interfaces
Hardware Interfaces
Software Interfaces

Communications Interfaces

4. System Requirements

41

41.1
41.2
4.1.3
42

4.2.1
4.2.2
4.23
43

4.1
4.3.2
4.3.3

Place Order
Description and Priority
Stimulus’ Response sequences
Functional Requirements
Customer Help
Description and Priority
Stimulus/Response sequences
Functional Requirements
Chef Order Queue
Deseription and Priority
Stimulus/Response sequences
Functional Requirements

& hw eee Se Se = =

a ww Ww

10
10
1
i
1
I
12
Software Requirements Specification for DireQut

44 Edit Order 12
4.4.1 Deseription and Priority 12
4.4.2 Stimulus/Response sequences 12
44.3 Functional Requirements 13
4.5 Cancel Order 13
4.5.1 Description and Priority 13
4.5.2  Stimulus’/Response sequences 13
4.5.3 Functional Requirements 13
4.6 Mark Dish as Cooked I4
4.6.1 Deseription and Priority 14
4.6.2 Stimulus/Response sequences 14
4.6.3 Functional Requirements 14
4.7 Request Bill 15
4.7.1 Description and Priority 15
4.7.2 Stimulus/Response sequences 15
4.7.3 Functional Requirements 15
4.8 Customer Feedback 15
4.8.1 Description and Priority 15
4.8.2 Stimulus/Response sequences 16
4.8.2 Functional Requirements 16
4.9 Add/Edit'Delete Staff Members I6
4.9.1 Deseription and Priority 16
4.9.2 Stimulus/Response sequences 16
4.9.3 Functional Requirements I?
4.10 Add/Edit/Delete Menu Items 17
4.10.1 Description and Priority iT
4.10.2 Stimulisresponse sequences IT
4.10.3 Funetianal Requirements 18
5. Nonfunctional Requirements 19
§.1 Performance Requirements 19
5.2 Safety Requirements 19
5.3 Security Requirements 19
$4 Software Quality Attributes 19

5.5 Business Rules 2]
Softeore Requirements Specification fer DineOut

Appendix A: Glossary
Appendix B: Analysis Models
Dish State Diagram
Data Flow Diagram
Use Case Diagram
Appendix C: To Be Determined List

22
23
23
24
25
26
Sofhenre Requirements Specification fer DineOut

Revision History

Name Date

Reason for Changes

Version

DineOut 1.0 10/23/2018

First version's specifications are defined

1

Software Requirements Specification for DiteQut Page I

1. Introduction

1.1 Purpose

Dine(ut is an android application that aims to digitalize the process of various restaurant
management operations including ordering and inventory management and POS. This document
aims to capture the system requirements and features particularly related to ordering and
inventory management to be implemented in DineOut version 1.0., with the later releases on
POS (Point of Sale).

1.2 Document Conventions

1.2.1 Priority Conventions

In this complete document, we will mention priority as “low” or “high” throughout the
document. Secondly, priorities are only mentioned in section 4 and section 5 along with
detailed description of the requirements. Any high-level requirements mentioned
elsewhere are assumed to inherit priorities of their detailed counterparts in section 4,5,

1.2.2 Fonts Conventions

Throughout this document, All the user entities are written in capitalizations ic, first
letter as capital, Also, any significant term which has been described in the glossary is
made bold and italic in the text, On the other hand, those terms which are significant (but
not described in glossary) are bold im text,

1.3 Intended Audience and Reading Suggestions

The purpose of this document is 10 give a detailed description of the requirements for the
“DincOut™ software. It will illustrate the purpose, scope and complete description for the
development of system. It will also explain external interface requirements and system
requirements as well as non-functional requirements. This document is primarily
intended to be proposed to a customer for its approval and alse for further processing
such as additions to be developed in later releases.

Customers can refer to section 3 and 4 for the list of requirements implemented in
Version 1.0. Users are advised to refer to user documentation section for tutorials and
online support information,

This document will also be used as a reference for developing and testing Version 1.0 by
the development team as well as the testers. The development team can refer to section
2.3 and 2.6 for system level information and section 3 for system features that are to be
implemented in this version of the software,
Software Requirements Specification for DireOQut Page 2

1.4 Product Scope

DineOut is a restaurant management system developed with the intention of automating the day
to day tasks ina restaurant like order and inventory management, bill generation and taking
feedback. This release of the software would deal with these lasks only whereas more areas
might be automated in the future versions of this software. The main purpose is to improve the
performance of the restaurant by eradicating the daily paperwork. With this system the tasks
would be performed in less amount of time and more efficiently, An additional benefit of this
software is that during the rush hours the load can be balanced effectively, and restaurants would
perform better than usual. In addition to this, human error that occurs when performing tasks
manually is also minimized and presence of queues in the system to assign tasks to chefs can
reduce congestion in the kitchen. The system would also result in reduction of labor which would
result in the reduction of expenses of the restaurant, Feedback module would help the restaurant
check for how well they are performing, and monthly/yearly figures can be checked by the
billing module to see the trends in sales and profits, These benefits can potentially result in
generation of more revenues for the restaurant.

1.5 References

1. Android User Interface 2 bape Available: at:

2. IEEE. IEEE Std $30-1998 IEEE Recommended Practice for Software Requirements
Specifications. IEEE Computer Society, 1998,
Software Requirements Specification for DineOut Page 3

2. Overall Description

This section will give an overview of the DineOut application. The basic functionality of the
system as well ils context will be explored in detail. [t also describes different kinds of
stakeholders and user classes associated with the system and what functionality is available for
each class. At last, the assumptions and dependencies for the system are presented.

2.1 Product Perspective

DineOut app will attempt to replace the traditional manual ordering process and is a new self-
contained software system that consists of two parts: one mobile application and the other is
Firebase database. The mobile application will be used for ordering and interacting with the
inventory while the Firebase database will be used for storing the inventory and ordering related
information about the food items like pending and complete order queues.

The mobile application will have five interfaces, Each for Customer, Manager, Head Chef,
Admin and Chef. Manager can see/edit the status of available/reserved tables. Customer's
interface will consist of a scrollable menu listing available items and their price. When ihe
customer selects some dishes and place the order, i will be stared in “pending orders” table in
Firebase database. Head Chef's interface will be such that he is notified of the pending order and
he is able to assign it to one the available queues of chefs who are then able to see the new order
in their screens or on a central display in kitchen, After cach item/dish in an order is prepared,
the order is marked completed through the Head Chef's interface, the hall manager gets notified
through his interface. Customer's interlace has an option for requesting the bill, Bill is printed
through the Manager's interface. Admin can change and modify the Firebase database like add
new menus or staff, edit current inventory stock ete.

eal

o

mo maREA pur Mampi Dye

Totithea tions “Moeitying Inmaminy and empioyi list

Firebase Catebee

Figi - System Perspective Diagram
Softeare Requirements Specification for DineOut Page 4

2.2 Product Functions

Given below are the major functions that can be performed using DineOut app. Moreover, a Data
Flow Diagram (BDFD) for better understanding of the system is also given in Appendix B.

The system will:
Allow Customers to scroll through the menu and select the dishes he/she wants.
Allow the Customers to cancel/edit the order any time before its prepared.
Allow Customers to provide feedback regarding the food and overall service of the
restaurant.

« Allow Customers to request for bill,

« Allow Customers toask for help through the system.

* Assign Head Chef to assign the dishes in an order to chefs according to their specialties.

« Show dish queues and their status, for Chets.

« Allow admin to perform CRUD (create, retrieve, update and delete) operations on Staff
Members, Menu Items and Inventory.

* Allow Head Chef to mark orders complete.

* Allow the Head Chef to approve cancellation of dish or order.

« Allow Hall Manager to mark the bill as: paid.

* Notify the Hall Manager when a particular order is complete.

* Allow the Hall Manager to see/edit status of tables reserved and available and their

capacitics,
2.3 User Classes and Characteristics

There are four types of users that interact with our system (See appendix 8), Firstly, there is a
Hall Manager, then Customer, Head Chef and Admin, We'll provide an interface for Chefs as
well through which they are looking at the status of their order queues, but they will mot interact
with our system,

2.3.1 Customer Class
Customers interact with our system directly in order to place order, modify order, get bill and

give feedback. We do not store any information related to customers in our system. The process
of order taking starts from customers placing order and then the other series of events begin.

2.3.2 Head Chef/Kitchen Manager

Head Chef can mark a dish as prepared when a chef tells him to do so. He can approve the
cancellation of an order whenever a customer edits or removes a dish from his order. He can also
assign a dish to a particular chef based on the specialty of the chef.

2.3.3 Chef
Software Requirements Specification for DitreQut Page §

Chefs don’t interact with the system. They just have to look at the dishes present in their queues
and prepare the dishes accordingly. Chefs name, address and specialty ete. are stored in the
database,

2.3.4 Admin

Admin’s job is to manage the inventory and other information related to menu and chefs in the
system,

2.3.5 Hall Manager

Hall Managers will provide its input when he marks the bill as paid when customers pay for their
order or get the bill printed. Moreover, he gets a notification whenever a particular order is
complete, or some customer asks for help through the system. Hall manager can also see tables
in the hall and their status ic. empty or filled.

24 Operating Environment

Itis an android application running on a tablet and the tablets are present in a restaurant. Firstly,
Tanager would be present at the entrance and system in his tab would show the tables that are
empty/reserved. There would be a tab present at every table for customers which they will use to
give order, When an order is placed the server would notify the head chef? kitchen manager who
would be in the kitchen. Head chef would use his tab which also would have the system installed
and would add the order to the appropriate queues of the chefs. The chefs would be present in the
kitchen area and their interface would allow them to check for the dishes they have to prepare,
So, the system is running on various tablets but the operating environment and purpose of each is
different for cach user,

2.5 Design and Implementation Constraints

25.1 Operating System Constraint

System should be compatible and will smoothly run on Android version 6.0 or
above,

2.5.2 Device Constraint

DineOut'’s core system and its user interfaces should be compatible with tablets.
However, running on small android mobile devices is not necessary,
Sofhenre Requirements Specification for DineOut Page 6

2.6 User Documentation

The software is accompanied by the following materials for further help:
® User Manual Version 1.0
e® Online support at www.dinoul.com

2.7 Assumptions and Dependencies

One assumption about the software is that it will always be used on tablets that have enough
resources to run the application. If the tablet does not have cnough hardware resources available
for the application, there may be scenarios where the application does not work as intended or
net even at all.

The application uses Firebase database for online storage of information like orders and menu
items that needs to be in working state. If the Firebase interface changes the application needs 10
be adjusted accordingly,
Softeare Requirements Specification for DineOut Page ?

=F

3.1

2.

External Interface Requirements

User Interfaces

Customer Interface

The customer interface will contain three screens, All three screen will have a
consistent layout,

LL... Place Order
In this screen, system shows a list of cards (UI Elements) of dishes, Each
dish will have an image, its price per serving.

1.2. Timer and Edit/Cancel Order
After confirming the order, the user will be shown a timer sereen. In this
screen customer will be shown “Edit Order" and “Cancel Order” buttons
and a timer which shows the completion time of the order. There will also
be a button to request for bill.

1.3. Feedback
In feedback screen, at the top right comer a button for “Request Bill” will
be shown. Beneath this button we will display a form which will have
different multiple-choice questions and a submit feedback button.

Head Chef Interface

In head chef interface, system will show all the current orders in detail ie. all the
dishes of a particular order, In each order, there is a button which will be used to
mark that dish cooked. Moreover, when customer wants to remove a dish from his
order, system will show head chef a notification to approve the removal of the
dish.

Hall Manager Interface

Hall manager will have a screen where he will get notification whenever an order
is completed. System will notify the hall manager about the order number and
table number. Hall Manager also has ‘a screen where all orders are listed, and
status button to mark the order as paid. Moreover, he also has an interface screen
to see and the status of tables in the restaurant as free/available.

Admin Interface
Softeare Requirements Specification for DineOut Page &

3.2

As Admin is authorized to perform CRUD operations on Staff Members, Menu Items and

Inventory Items, He'll be having three different sereens for Staff Members, Menu Items,
and Inventory.

Hardware Interfaces

Our system can interact with a hardware device directly, We have tw connect our system to the
bill printer for handing the hard copy of the bill to the customer. For billing module, we may
have to use a credit card reader for payment, but the interaction and the results generated by that
reader are just entered into our system manually by the user. Moreover, the central screen in
kitchen which will be displaying the status of order queues.

33

3.4

Software Interfaces

For Database services system shall use to Firebase latest version released on October 16,
2018.

System will run on android version above or cqual to marshmallow 6.0
System shall use v4 support library Print Helper for connecting to the printer and
a driver to connect to the kitchen screen.

Communications Interfaces

DineOut is an android application and it will communicate with Firebase (which is a storage
server provided by Cioogle for android developers). Firebase uses HTTP protacol for
communication, so our deviee will follow HTTP protocol when connecting to Firebase.
Softeare Requirements Specification for DineOut Page 9

4.
41

4.1.1

System Requirements

Place Order
Description and Priority

The system will give customers the ability to place their orders using our product.
It will display a list of available and unavailable dishes in the menu where
unavatlable dishes will be grayed out, Customer will be able to select multiple
dishes and their quantity for a particular order.

Priority:
high

Stimulus/Response sequences

When user enters the order activity/page, initially system displays a list of
available and unavailable dishes along with their prices.

1. Stimulus:
Customer taps on an available dish.
Response:
System shows a popup having name.of the dish and price per serving. Also,
it contains a text box for the customer to enter the quantity, OK button and
a Cancel button.

Li. Stimulus:
Customer taps on an unavailable dish.
Response:
Nothing happens,

2, Stimulus:
Customer enters the quantity and press OK button.
Response:
System closes the popup, shows a small green tick mark at the side of dish,
Below the tick mark it shows quantity selected and total price of that dish.

2.1. Stimulus:
If Customer taps on cancel button after 1.
Response:
the system closes the popup, and nothing happens.
Sofhenre Requirements Specification for DineOut Page 10

4.1.3

4.2
4.241

4.2.2

3. Stimulus:
Customer taps on confirm order button at the bottom
Response:
System closes the order sereen and displays a timer along with a “Cancel
Order” button and “Edit Order” button

Functional Requirements

REQ-1: The system will show a list of cards (U1 element) of dishes. Each card
will have a picture of the dish, Below the dish it shows the price in Rupees per
serving.

REQ-2: The system must show all available and unavailable dishes to the
Customer.

REQ-3: Tap on any of the displayed dish will result ina popup for quantity and a
green mark after quantity has been selected.

REQ-4: The popup for quantity input will not allow the user to enter letters,
negative numbers or any invalid characters.

REQ-5: After completing the order the system will display a timer “Time to
complete the order” and it is the total time required to serve the dish keeping in
view the previously queued orders, Moreover, it also shows a cancel order button.

REQ-6; Unavailable dishes must be displayed but their operations must be
disabled.

Customer Help

Description and Priority

Our system will provide help for the customer if the customer faces issues in using the
tab, there will be a ‘help’ option in his interface. If he faces issues in using the tab or

wanl some other assistance, he can notify the hall manager through the system.

Priority:
high

Stimulus/Response sequences

The home sereen for the customer shows a help button on top right corner of the
screen.
Softeare Requirements Specification for DineOut Page Hi

4. Stimulus:
Customer taps on the help button.
Response:
System shows a popup with two buttons, “Call a waiter to manage order”,
“Call a waiter for help”

5. Stimulus:
Customer taps on any of the button.
Response:
System closes the popup and sends a notification to the Hall Manager,
Notification will include the table number of the Customer.

4.2.5 Functional Requirements

43

43.1

REQ-2: The system must give Customer the ability to ask for help,

REQ-1; When the customer taps on “Call the waiter to manage order”. the system
must store that the above order was given by the waiter,

Chef Order Queue
Description and Priority

Whenever a new order is placed by the Customer, the dishes in the orders are
classified into categories, The system has the information of specialty of each
chef, it will assign each dish to a corresponding chef and place it in the order
queue of that chef. There is a centralized screen in the kitchen which displays
queues for each chef. Each item in the queue is labeled with the name of the dish.

priority:
high

4.3.2 Stimulus/Response sequences

1. Stimulus:
Customer taps the “Confirm Order” button in “Place Order screen”,
Response:
Displays the dishes on kitchen screen in corresponding chefs queue,
Softeare Requirements Specification for DineOut Page f2

433

4.4

4.4.1

4.4.2

Functional Requirements

REQ-1; System will classify the dishes in the order according to category and
add this dish on a particular chefs queue in the kitchen sereen.

Edit Order

Description and Priority

Customer can edit the order any time before the serving. In editing mode, the customer
ean change the quantity of the of the food ordered, add and remove dishes from the order.

priority:
high

Stimulus/Response sequences
The timer screen shows two buttons “Cancel Order” and “Edit Order” button

1, Stimulus:
Customer taps on “Edit Order” button,
Response:
System shows the previous menu sereen where selected dishes are already
marked with green tick.

2. Stimulus:
Customer taps on any of the selected dish.
Response:
System opens a popup with previous quantity pre-filled. This popup will
also contain a bution “Remove Dish”.

3. Stimulus:
Customer enters new quantity and press “OK”
Response:
System shows an error “Cannot edit <Name> dish” or System closes the
popup and new quantity will be displayed on that dish in the list.

4, Stimulus:
Customer taps on “Remove Dish”
Response:
system responds with “Dish <Name> removed” or “Dish <Name> cannot
be removed”
Softeare Requirements Specification for DineOut Page 13

443

4.5

45.1

5. Stimulus:
Customer taps on any new dish which was not previously selected
Response:
stimuli/Responses of “Place Order” feature will be followed.

Functional Requirements

REQ-1:
System must allow the Customer to increase, decrease or even remove the
dish from the order any time before serving.

REQ-2:
System must remove the dish or decrease quantity of the dish with the
approval of head chet,

Cancel Order
Description and Priority

Our system will also provide an option to cancel the current order. When the
customer taps on the “Cancel Order” button. Customer can cancel the order at any
time before serving,

priority:
high

Stimulus/Response sequences

1. Stimulus:
Customer taps on the “Caneel Order” button
Response:
system responds with a popup “Order canceled successfully” or “Order
cannot be cancelled”

Functional Requirements

REQ-1:
System must allow the customer to cancel order at any time before serving.

REQ-2:
In cancel order, all the dishes will be presented for approval to the head chef. Only
approved dishes will be dropped.
Softeare Requirements Specification for DineOut Page Id

4.6

4.6.1

4.6.2

4.6.3

Mark Dish as Cooked

Description and Priority

The head chef can mark the dish of a particular order complete when notified by
the chef.

priority:
high

Stimulus/Response sequences

The system will show’a list of current orders in earliest first order in head chef
screen. Each order also shows order no and table no associated with the order.

Moreover, it also shows a list of dishes for cach order. Alongside of each dish

there ts a button saying, “Marked Cooked”.

Stimulus:

Head chef taps on the “Mark Cooked” button on a dish in an order.
Response:

System changes that button to a green tick.

2. Stimulus:
All the dishes of a particular order have been marked “cooked”
Response:
System shows a notification to the hall manager saying, “Order of Table No
<Table No> is ready for serving”. System shows a new screen having Title
“Food Ready” to the Customer showing a button “Request Bill” and
MCQ's for customer feedback.

Functional Requirements

REQ-1:
System must send a notification to the hall manager once all the dishes of a
particular order has been marked “cooked”.

REQ-2:
System must replace the timer screen with a new screen having feedback and
request bill options.
Softeare Requirements Specification for DineOut Page 15

4.7

4.7.1

4.7.2

4.73

4.8

4.8.1

Request Bill
Description and Priority

Request bill option gives the ability to the customer to ask for receipt and pay the
bill,

priority:
high

Stimulus/Response sequences

1. Stimulus:
Customer taps on the request bill button
Response:
The system prints the bill through a printer. System will add a bill to
the hall manager's view with the button that says “paid”.

Functional Requirements

REQ-1: The system must notify the hall manager that a customer has request fora
bill

REQ-2: The system must show Hall manager the order no, table no and total
payable amount

REQ-3: The system must give ability to the hall manager to change the status of
the bill to paid.
Customer Feedback

Description and Priority

The system will give customers the ability to give a feedback for the food or
overall services. In the feedback screen there are multiple choice questions each
having two options “Satisfactory” and “Unsatisfactory”. At the end there is a

submit button,

priority:
high
Softeare Requirements Specification for DineOut Page 16

4.8.2 Stimulus/Response sequences

1. Stimulus:
The customer taps on request bill option
Response:
the system shows a feedback screen with multiple choice questions and a
submit butten,

4.8.3 Functional Requirements

REQ-1: System must show the feedback screen to the user.
REQ-2: System must display multiple choice questions for feedback,

4.9 Add/Edit/Delete Staff Members
4.9.1 Description and Priority

The system gives ability to the admin to add, edit and delete staff members, Using
this feature an admin can add chefs, waiters, managers.

priority:
high

4.9.2) Stimulus/Response sequences

Admin/Manage sereen shows a grid of staff members. There is a button at the top
of grid which says Add Member, In the grid after every entry there is a “Edit” and
“Remove” bution.

lL. Stimulus:
Admin taps on “Add Staff button
Response:
System opens another screen with a form

2. Stimulus:
Admin fills the information and hit submit
Response:
System responds with “<Staff Member> added successfully”

3. Stimulus:
Admin taps on edit button
Response:
Softeare Requirements Specification for DineOut Page I?

4.93

4.10

System opens a screen with a form prefilled with the existing values.

Stimulus:

Admin edits the information and hit submit

Response:

System responds with “<Staff Member> edited successfully”

Stimulus:

Admin laps on remove bulton on a particular row
Response:

responds with a “<Staff Name> removed successfully”

Functional Requirements

REQ-1: Admin should be able to add all necessary information about the staff
member

REQ-2: System must give admin the ability to edit information about all staff
members

REQ-3: System must give admin the ability to remove staff members.

Add/Edit/Delete Menu Items

4.10.1 Description and Priority

The system gives ability to the admin to add, edit and delete staff members. Using
this feature an admin can add chefs, waiters, managers.

priority:
high

4.10.2 Stimulus/response sequences

Admin screen shows all the previously added dishes. It also shows a “Add Dish” button
along with “Edit” and “Remove” with all the available dishes

1, Stimulus:
Admin taps on “Add Dish” button
Response:
Sofhenre Requirennents Specification fer DiteOQut Page 18

System opens another sereen with a form

2. Stimulus:
Admin fills the information and hit submit
Response:
System responds with “=<Dish> added successfully”

6. Stimulus:
Admin taps on edit button
Response:
System opens a screen with a form prefilled with the existing values,

7. Stimulus:

Admin edits the information and hit submit

Response:

System responds with “<Dish Member> edited successfully”
8. Stimulus:

Admin taps on remove button on a particular row

Response:

responds with a “<Dish> removed successfully”

4.10.3 Functional Requirements

REQ-1: Admin should be able to add all necessary information about the staff
member

REQ-2: System must give admin the ability to edit information about all staff
members

REQ-3: System must give admin the ability to remove staff members.
Software Requirements Specification for DitreQut Page 19

5. Nonfunctional Requirements

§.1 Performance Requirements

The system must be interactive, and the delays involved must be less. So, in every action-
response of the system, there are no immediate delays. In case of scrolling through the
menu there should be a delay of no more than 2 second before the next page of menu
items is displayed otherwise our people's dining experience is affected, The order should
be placed in pending orders and be visible to the head chefchefs in less than | second ta
stant the preparation.

Cancel Order! updates must be made with little delay to avoid delivery delay. Also, when

connecting to the Firebase server the delay to make a successful connection should be
less for effective real time communication,

§.2 Safety Requirements

The software is completely environmentally friendly and does not cause any safety violations.
The menu will havea flexible font that can be zoomed so as to not over constrain the eyes,

5.3 Security Requirements
There is a need for a proper and encrypted login authentication for head chef and admin as
employee sensitive information as well as inventory should be protected from hacking.

Information transmisston should be securely transmitted to Firebase without any changes in
information to avoid disturbances in orders and billing

5.4 Software Quality Attributes

$.4.1 Adaptability:

There ean be a change in the menu and information stored in the database about
employees and inventory.

$.4.2 Availability:

The system is up and running for most of the time and server is not down for more than a
few minutes to avon inconvenience of the customers,

$4.3 Correctness:

The bill generated by the application must be accurate and the orders placed should
exactly be the same which the user has selected,
Software Requirements Specification for DireOQut Page 20

5.4.4 Flexibility:
[Fneed arises in the future, software can be modified to change the requirements.

5.4.5 Interoperability:

The data is transferred from the customer's end to the kitchen and then head chef assigns
orders to cach chef. This way data is transferred from one part of the system to-another,

5.4.6 Maintainability:
Software can be easily repaired if'a fault occurs.
$4.7 Portability:

Software can be easily installed on devices and would run smoothly according to the
requirement,

5.4.8 Reliability:

No matter how many orders are placed, system must give the correct results,
3.4.9 Reusability:

Current version can be used in the future versions with more functionality added.
5.4.10 Robustness:

Software must have checks to ensure that the items thal are not available in the menu
cannot be selected and the emails, phone numbers added are all valid.

5.4.11 Testability:

All the requirements are fulfilled, response time is low, and all functions are working
perfectly.

5.4.12 Usability:

Interface of the software must be easy to use. ft would not be complex since managers,
chefs have a view, so interface should be simple.
Softeare Requirements Specification for DiteQut Page 2!

5.5

Business Rules

. Manager's interface contains the view of tables that are free, and manager ean just view

and doesn't provide any input to the system.

Once the bill is paid, manager can mark the order as. paid.

Admin has access to perfonm add, delete, update operations on the database for menu,
inventory, employees and no other person can modify the data in the db.

Customers can place order from the list of available items and can update order and pay
bill.

Head chef assigns orders to chets and can update the queues and has an additional
functionality of load balance,

Chefs can only view the orders and cannot remove an order from their queuc, Only head
chef can interact with the queues containing orders.
Sofieare Requirements Specification for DineOut Page 22

Appendix A: Glossary

CRUD: In compiiter programming. create, read, update, and delete (CRUD) are the four basic
functions of persistent storage. Allernate words are sometimes used when defining the four basic
functions of CRUD, sweh as retrieve instead of reading, modify instead af update, ar destroy
instead of deleting,

Print Helper: [tis an android library that is used fa conneet to remote printer and send
conmands to thet printer for printing.

marshinaitow 6.0: Android 6.0 “Marshmallow” is the sixth major version of the Android
‘operating system and the 73 version of Android. First released as a bela build on May 28,

2015, ft was officially released on October 5, 2075, with Nexus devices being the first to receive
the update.
Sofnenre Requirements Specification for DineOut Page 23

Appendix B: Analysis Models

Dish State Diagram

Dish State Diagram

Removed From Waiting Queue Marked Cooked iby head chet

=F}
Suftware Requirements Specification for Dh sue

Data Flow Diagram
i) ieee
C dene selected Dotabase ae
Soe levesiory a
ae aan
pres ard miry selected mentaieak
bation press input Snr cut of sineck er ag unavailable
Check
Mena i
cy = aie
Gahes
ody
bution pressed
Pay BB fe
| encioye
ue tide
onder paced
Aad he
4 paymentoal
ba manic the BE as peal
Head Chel ae
t ichets aeageed — b| Orde
hs —————— ils
Added tone queue of orcers aah
Me a thay
(eae

Sofhenre Requirements Specification fer DireOut

Use Case Diagram

Page 25

——

ei

Hall manager

——"|

Mark Dish cooked

Head Chet oo an

Approve Dish cancelation

Mark Bill Paiel
[i

|
Admin

"Catt
CRUD Menu Items

(CRUD inventory Items

LI

LF

=
Softeare Requirements Specification for DineOut Page 26

Appendix C: To Be Determined List

Weekly sales report and tracking most ordered dish and prioritizing its inventory stocking feature
(restock the items that are most ordered offen) is yet to be determined by the client and may need
further meetings for elaboration.

Adding POS (potat of sale) features ta the application ix vet to be determined ax well.
